#meta: date=2026-05-24, clause_types=quiet_enjoyment, url=https://www.canlii.org/en/on/onltb/doc/2012/2012canlii36291/2012canlii36291.pdf

ONTARIO LANDLORD AND TENANT BOARD



Order Page 1 of 12
Order under Section 31
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
File Number: TST-18802-11
P.S. and M.H. (the 'Tenants') applied for an order determining that The Landlord or the Landlord's
agents harassed, obstructed, coerced, threatened or interfered with them, entered the rental unit
illegally, altered the locking system on a door giving entry to the rental unit or residential complex
without giving them replacement keys and substantially interfered with the reasonable enjoyment
of the rental unit or residential complex by the Tenants or by a member of their household.
This application was heard in Toronto on September 15, November 10, November 30, 2011 and
February 14, 2012.
The first-named Tenant and the Landlord attended the hearing on each day except for November
10, 2011 when only the Tenant attended. The Landlord was represented by M.P. who testified on
the Landlord’s behalf and called as a witness: E.P. (the ‘Landlord’s Witness’).
Determinations:
1. The residential complex is a Victorian style three storey building in downtown Toronto
that has been divided into three apartments. In June of 2006 the Tenants rented unit 1
from the previous landlord. In 2010 the building was sold to the current Landlord. The
apartment on the third floor subsequently became vacant and the Tenants rented that
unit in March, 2011 in addition to unit 1 because they wanted the additional living space.
The Issue Concerning the Backyard
2. Although this application raises a number of issues, the primary dispute between the
parties concerns whether or not the enclosed yard beside and behind the residential
complex constitutes part of unit 1 or not. The Tenants take the position that these areas
are part of the rental unit and therefore the Landlord cannot use them for its own
purposes and must give proper notice of entry if it wishes to enter onto the grounds. The
Landlord takes the position that the disputed areas should be considered analogous to
exclusive use common areas as is the case in condominium complexes.
3. According to the Tenant who testified before me, when the unit was originally rented it
was understood between the previous landlord and the Tenants that the exterior back
and gated side entrance were for the exclusive use of the Tenants of unit 1. The Tenants
entered into evidence the original advertisement for the rental unit that was posted by the
previous landlord. It describes the unit, the number of bathrooms and bedrooms and
says: “walkout to Deck/Garden (Exclusive Use)”. Unlike most yards the one at issue here
is locked with a gate and cannot be accessed by anyone without a key. Unit 1 is also the
only unit with a door leading out to the yard. It occupies the first floor of the building and
the basement; the main bedroom has an exterior door exiting directly into the backyard.
2012 CanLII 36291 (ON LTB)
File Number: TST-18802-11
Order Page 2 of 12
4. The Tenants also entered into evidence an e-mail from the agent who represented the
previous landlord confirming that the Landlord’s agent was told during negotiations that
the tenancy agreement for unit 1 included a provision whereby the yard and shed were
for the exclusive use of the Tenants. They also provided an e-mail from the previous
landlord from before the sale wherein she gave notice that she was planning on entering
the yard, the shed in the backyard, and the furnace room. According to the Landlord’s
representative and Witness the Landlord was never told during the sale that the disputed
areas were part of the rental unit and not to be accessed without proper notice; however,
the e-mails filed show that the new Landlord did recognise the areas were for the
Tenants’ “exclusive use” but disputed what that meant in terms of rights to access and
notice.
5. As the previous landlord was not called as a witness by either party and as the Tenants’
evidence was substantiated by the original advertisement for the unit, I accept their
evidence that when the tenancy agreement was entered into the Tenants were told that
the yard and side areas were for their exclusive use. I also accept that until the property
was sold that meant the Tenants were routinely given notice of entry whenever the
previous landlord needed to access the areas in question. I say this even though the
original lease is silent on the issue because it is not unusual in residential tenancies for a
written lease to be silent on some aspect of the agreement between the parties. In fact
section 202 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the 'Act') explicitly addresses the
idea that the terms of a written lease should not be determinative in any dispute. It says:
“In making findings on an application, the Board shall ascertain the real substance of all
transactions and activities … and in doing so … may disregard the outward form of a
transaction… and… may have regard to the pattern of activities relating to the residential
complex or the rental unit.”
6. The definition of “landlord” under subsection 2(1) of the Act includes “successors in title”
and section 18 says covenants run with the land. What these provisions mean is that
when the property was sold the Landlord stepped into the shoes of the previous owner
with respect to the tenancy agreement and was bound by its terms.
7. So the issue that must be addressed is what rights did the respective parties have
regarding the disputed areas under the Act, given the fact that the tenancy agreement
gave the Tenants’ exclusive possession of them?
8. The definition of “rental unit” in subsection 2(1) of the Act “means any living
accommodation used or intended for use as rented residential premise” and includes a
site for a mobile home and a room in a rooming house. As the definition of rental unit
includes a “site for a mobile home” it is not apparent or obvious that just because an area
is outside walls rather than inside means that it is not a part of the rental unit. This
distinguishes rental units from the normal situation in condominium complexes where
there is a clear demarcation in ownership and rights based on what is inside the walls
and what is outside. In condominium corporations it is not unusual for a roof deck or
balcony to be for the “exclusive use” of an owner, but the area itself is actually owned by
the condominium corporation which thereby has rights of access by virtue of being the
owner of those areas.
2012 CanLII 36291 (ON LTB)
File Number: TST-18802-11
Order Page 3 of 12
9. Given the definition of “rental unit” in the Act, I do not believe the situation here is
analogous to that of balconies or roof tops in condominium complexes. Rather what the
definition means is that “rental unit” includes any areas intended by the parties to be used
for residential purposes. As cooking, entertaining and relaxing are all normal parts of
residential activities and those things can be done in a yard as well as inside, I see no
immediate reason for accepting the Landlord’s proposition that the disputed area in
question here should not be considered part of the rental unit.
10. In the Act the definition of “rental unit” is different from that of “residential complex”.
“Residential complex” is the phrase used to describe the entire building and grounds
including the rental units within it. Subsection 2(1) says “residential complex” “means a
building or related group of buildings in which one or more rental units are located, a
mobile home park or land lease community, a site that is a rental unit, a care home, and
includes all common areas and services and facilities available for the use of its
residents.” [Emphasis added.] In other words, all rental units are part of and included in
the definition of residential complex, but something can be part of the residential complex
and yet not a part of any rental unit. This is particularly important in the context of this
application because the privacy provisions of the Act only refer to the “rental unit” but
contain no restrictions with respect to a landlord’s right to access the “residential
complex”.
11. One of the things that the Landlord’s Witness said during the hearing was that she had
discussed the status of the disputed areas with the real estate agent who had
represented the Landlord during the purchase and sale and that he had agreed with her
that the proposition put forward by the Tenants was “silly”. I took this to be a submission
that the Tenants’ position was so impractical in its implications that the Act should not be
interpreted in a manner that created an absurdity. Now it seems to me that if the area in
question had not been gated and locked as was the case here then that argument might
have some merit. In that situation the area would probably constitute a common area or
facility as anyone could access it at any time and it would be impractical for anyone to try
and claim exclusive possession of it regardless of an agreement to the contrary.
However, that is not the case here. As the area in question is securely locked it would not
be absurd in any way for the Board to find that it constitutes part of the rental unit. In
addition, in this case the Landlord and Tenants both agreed that the disputed areas were
not “common areas…available for the use of residents” because only the occupants of
unit 1 were supposed to have use of the yard.
12. As the disputed areas are not common areas, services or facilities but are indisputably
part of the residential complex the logical result is that they must be part of the rental unit.
As a result of all of the above, I accept the Tenants’ argument that the exterior areas like
the back yard, walkway and shed were included in their tenancy agreement and
comprised part of rental unit 1.
Illegal Entry
13. The necessary result that flows from this conclusion is that every time the Landlord’s
representative and Witness
