#meta: date=2026-05-24, clause_types=guest_policy, url=https://www.canlii.org/en/on/onltb/doc/2021/2021canlii89641/2021canlii89641.pdf

ONTARIO LANDLORD AND TENANT BOARD



Order Page 1 of 7
Order under Section 100
Residential Tenancies Act, 2006
File Number: SOL-16798-20
In the matter of: 209, 4070 OLD DUNDAS STREET
TORONTO ON M6S 2R6
Between: 940412 Ontario Ltd. Landlord
and
Estate of Narandza Stanoev
and
Marc Stanoev
Tenant
Occupant
940412 Ontario Ltd. (the ‘Landlord’) applied for an order to terminate the tenancy of the Estate of
Narandza Stanoev (the ‘Tenant’) because the Landlord did not consent to the assignment or
sublet of the tenancy and for compensation for the use of the rental unit (the ‘A2 Application’).
This application was heard via video conference on May 5, 2021. The Landlord’s Legal
Representative, David Rubin, the Occupant, Marc Stanoev (‘M.S.’), the Occupant’s Agent,
Andrea Adanasov (‘A.A.’), and the witness, Gerald Rozario (‘G.R.’), attended the hearing. M.S.
declined the opportunity to speak with Duty Counsel prior to the hearing.
Preliminary Issues:
Adjournment Request
1. Shortly after the beginning of the hearing block, M.S. and his Agent interrupted another
hearing as they wanted to proceed with their hearing first. This request was denied as
the other matter had commenced and they offered no reason for the presumed urgency
of their matter over that of the matter in progress. M.S. subsequently requested an
adjournment as he had assumed that this application would be the only matter on the
docket and he and A.A. had arranged to return to work by 3:00 p.m. The Landlord’s
Legal Representative opposed the adjournment request, noting that M.S. had not
indicated any need for a postponement or sought the Landlord’s consent to reschedule
the matter prior to the start of the hearing.
2. There was no basis for M.S. to assume that no other matters would be scheduled for the
same hearing block as the present application. As well, M.S. had indicated to the
Landlord and Tenant Board (the ‘Board’) that he was available to participate in the
hearing on May 5, 2021 and did not mention any time limitations that would prevent him
from participating in an afternoon block. If he had other pressing commitments within two
2021 CanLII 89641 (ON LTB)
File Number: SOL-16798-20
Order Page 2 of 7
hours of the start of the hearing block, he should have indicated that he was not available
for a hearing at 1:00 p.m. on May 5, 2021. Instead, he simply presumed that the Board
would accommodate his schedule on the date of the hearing and gambled that no other
matters would proceed during the hearing block. As a result, the adjournment request
was denied.
Exclusion of Occupant’s Evidence
3. At the hearing, A.A. intended to rely upon several documents not disclosed to the
Landlord or its Legal Representative prior to the hearing.
4. The Notice of Hearing emailed to both parties included the following cautionary
information regarding disclosure:
WHAT YOU SHOULD DO IF YOU HAVE EVIDENCE TO PRESENT:
 Each party must give the other party a complete copy of all of the evidence they
want to use during the hearing as soon as possible but at least 7 days before the
hearing.
 Each party must also email their evidence to the LTB at least 7 days before the
hearing.
 Email your evidence to: SO-LTB@ontario.ca
 The subject line of your email should include: the word “EVIDENCE”; your FILE
Number; and your hearing date
 If you do not provide the other party and the Board with a copy of your evidence at
least 7 days before the hearing you may not permitted to rely on the evidence
during the hearing. [Emphasis in original]
5. M.S. and A.A. offered no explanation for their failure to comply with the above disclosure
requirements.
6. A.A. testified that she had sent this evidence to the Board on an unspecified day and
received a message that it had been accepted. None of the proposed evidence had
been uploaded until 6:37 p.m., roughly two hours after the hearing had ended and was
therefore not available to the Board during the hearing. Board records indicate however,
that A.A. only filed these items on May 3, 2021, again well after the deadline in the Notice
of Hearing.
7. M.S. and A.A. did not deny receipt of the Notice of Hearing and offered no explanation or
justification for their decision to simply ignore the deadlines for disclosure and filing their
evidence.
8. Consequently, this evidence was excluded. As noted in the Reasons below, none of the
proposed evidence relating to payment of the rent would have had a material effect on
the outcome of the hearing and none of it was contested by the Landlord.
2021 CanLII 89641 (ON LTB)
File Number: SOL-16798-20
Order Page 3 of 7
Determinations and Reasons:
1. G.R. has been the property manager for the residential complex since the Landlord
purchased the building in 2011. The Tenant, Narandza Stanoev, had resided in the
rental unit since 2004 under the prior landlord. At all material times, she was the only
occupant named in the written tenancy agreement.
2. In June, 2020, the Tenant’s son, M.S., made a complaint to the superintendent with
respect to a parking issue. The superintendent asked who was on the lease and was
advised that the Tenant was the only leaseholder. On July 1, 2020, the Landlord sent a
letter to the Tenant requesting that she attend at the office regarding her tenancy. After
two months, the Landlords sent another letter to the Tenant in early September, 2020,
reiterating the lack of contact with the Tenant. Having received no response to either
letter, the Landlord then served a notice of entry for September 4, 2020 to inspect the
unit.
3. In the interim, the superintendent had spoken with M.S.’s spouse on multiple occasions
and asked to speak to the Tenant. At that time, M.S.’s spouse resided in the rental unit
with M.S. She consistently rebuffed his inquiries and insisted that he must discuss the
matter with M.S. While he denied receipt of the Landlord’s letters, M.S. did not contest
G.R.’s evidence that his spouse had spoken with the superintendent on multiple
occasions or that he was aware of these inquiries. He did not contact the superintendent
to resolve the issue.
4. When the superintendent attended at the rental unit on September 4, 2020, he observed
no evidence of the Tenant’s occupation. Following this inspection, G.R. entered a google
search of the Tenant’s name and discovered that she had passed away on or about June
17, 2016.
5. The Landlord filed the A2 Application on September 10, 2020. Read together,
subsections 100(1) and (2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the ‘Act’) set out the
time limitation for the Landlord to file an A2 Application:
100. (1) If a tenant transfers the occupancy of a rental unit to a person in a manner other thanby
an assignment authorized under section 95 or a subletting authorized under section 97,
the landlord may apply to the Board for an order terminating the tenancy and evictingthe
tenant and the person to whom occupancy of the rental unit was transferred.
(2) An application under subsection (1) must be made no later than 60 days after the
landlord discovers the unauthorized occupancy.
6. Subsection 104(4) of the Act deems that a tenancy has been created if the Landlord fails
to apply to terminate the tenancy within sixty days of discovering the unauthorized
transfer:
104. (4) A person’s occupation of a rental unit shall be deemed to be an assignment of the
rental unit with the consent of the landlord as of the date the unauthorized occupancy
began if,
2021 CanLII 89641 (ON LTB)
