#meta: date=2023-03-15, clause_types=early_termination, url=https://www.canlii.org/en/on/onltb/

ONTARIO LANDLORD AND TENANT BOARD
File Number: TNT-10001-23

BETWEEN:
Applicant Tenant
and
Respondent Landlord

REASONS FOR ORDER

BACKGROUND
The Tenant applied to the Landlord and Tenant Board seeking a determination that a lease-break fee clause in the tenancy agreement is void and unenforceable under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the "Act").

ANALYSIS
The tenancy agreement contained the following clause: "If the Tenant vacates the rental unit before the end of the fixed term, the Tenant shall pay a lease-break fee equal to two months' rent as liquidated damages."

The Board finds that this clause is void and unenforceable. Section 37(1) of the Act provides that a tenancy may be terminated only in accordance with the Act. The Act sets out a comprehensive and exhaustive scheme for the termination of tenancies. A tenancy agreement cannot impose financial penalties, lease-break fees, or liquidated damages clauses that are not authorized by the Act.

The Board further finds that the lease-break fee constitutes a prohibited additional charge under section 134(1) of the Act, which provides that no landlord shall charge or collect any amount of money other than rent. A lease-break fee is precisely such a prohibited charge.

The landlord argued that the clause was a legitimate contractual provision for damages. The Board rejected this argument. The Act is a consumer protection statute and prevails over any agreement to the contrary (section 3). The comprehensive termination scheme in Part V of the Act replaces common law contractual remedies for lease-breaking in the residential tenancy context.

PRINCIPLE
A clause in a tenancy agreement requiring the tenant to pay a lease-break fee, early termination penalty, or liquidated damages upon vacating before the end of a fixed term is void under sections 3, 37, and 134 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. The landlord's remedy upon a tenant vacating before the end of a fixed term is limited to applying to the Board for compensation for the reasonable costs of re-letting.

ORDER
The Board orders that the lease-break fee clause is void and of no effect. The Landlord is ordered to return any lease-break fee collected from the Tenant.
