#meta: date=2022-08-16, clause_types=dispute_resolution, url=https://www.canlii.org/en/on/onltb/

ONTARIO LANDLORD AND TENANT BOARD
File Number: TNT-30002-22

BETWEEN:
Applicant Tenant
and
Respondent Landlord

REASONS FOR ORDER

BACKGROUND
The Tenant applied after the Landlord relied on a lease clause in which the Tenant had purportedly waived the right to raise repair and maintenance issues at any hearing, arguing that the Tenant had contractually agreed to accept the unit "as-is" for the duration of the tenancy.

ANALYSIS
The tenancy agreement contained: "The Tenant accepts the rental unit in its current condition and as-is, and waives any right to claim, assert, or raise any issue related to the state of repair or maintenance of the unit at any hearing, proceeding, or before any tribunal."

Section 20(1) of the Act imposes a non-waivable duty on the landlord to maintain a rental unit in a good state of repair and fit for habitation. Section 3 of the Act provides that any agreement or waiver by a tenant is void to the extent it is inconsistent with the Act.

A waiver of the right to raise repair issues before the Board is void in its entirety. The duty to repair under section 20 exists for the benefit of tenants and cannot be contracted away. If it could, landlords could systematically include such waivers in all agreements and effectively nullify the repair and maintenance protections in the Act.

Section 82 of the Act further provides that a tenant may raise any issue that could be the subject of an application made by the tenant at a hearing of an application made by the landlord. This right cannot be waived by a lease clause.

PRINCIPLE
A clause in which a tenant waives the right to raise repair, maintenance, or habitability issues at a hearing, or accepts a unit "as-is" in perpetuity, is void under sections 3, 20, and 82 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. The landlord's duty to maintain the unit in a good state of repair is non-waivable.

ORDER
The Board declares the waiver clause void and of no effect. The Tenant's repair claims are considered on their merits.
